Version f, May 12
	Speech identifier now communicated through an int message

Version g, May 15
	Diagnosis now sent by server.

Version h, May 21
	Implemented intonation control, elasticity control, and balance control.

Version h, May 22
	Added a HUP signal handler.

Version i, May 
	Minor fixes

Version j, May 27
	Added randomize option.
	Added set_block and get_block to server.

Version k, June 3
	Will kill all currently running servers when launched.
	NOTE: in order for servers to be killed, they must have the
		string "TTS_Server" in argv[0].

Version l, June 10
	Updated intonation.

Version m, June 15
	Updated intonation.

Version n, June 16
	Server is now portable within the file system.  It's portability
		is contingent on the correct setting of systemPath
		variable in the defaults database.

		to achieve this, the following functions were modified
			init_databases()	in structs.c
			init_dict()		in parser/search.c
			init_tone_groups()	in delta_calc.c
			cache_init()		in parser/cache.c

		they are now passed a systemPath parameter.

	Function "pause" in the files server.c and server_handler.c was
		changed to "server_pause".  The function name "pause()" 
		conflicted with another function included in the header
		file <appkit/nextstd.h>

	Reports problems and server startup via NXLogError().

Version o, June 18
	HUP signal can be sent via the message SERVER_HUP.
	Itimer is now working.  Every 60 seconds, a SIGALRM is generated.
		At that time, users processes are checked.  If no one is
		currently connected to the server with a valid PID, the
		server kills itself.

Version p, July 6
	Will now compile for both release 2 and release 3 (pr2) of the
		operating system.

Version q, July 7
	Integrates new parser.

Version r, July 9
	New Object libraries to include dictionary version method.
	Extra int message sent on SpeakText and LinePronunciation methods.
	User and App dictionary access routines installed.

Version s, July 13
	hy and hw rewrites in place.
	Fixed out-of-line data pointer bug. (Major) (See Messages.c/h)
	Many small bug fixes

