For Immediate Release

For further information, contact:

	tabletkit@arcane.calgary.ab.ca

	Arcane Systems Ltd.
	10 Bermuda Lane N.W.
	Calgary, AB T3K 2K2
	Canada
	Phone: (403) 275-9232
	Fax: (403) 275-9245



ARCANE SYSTEMS ANNOUNCES TABLETKIT 1.0

Availability of Graphics Tablet Framework

CALGARY, AB, February 19, 1995

Arcane Systems Ltd. today announced immediate availability of TabletKit 1.0.

Desktop publishers and graphic designers have long been aware of the advantages of NEXTSTEP over other platforms in high-end graphics. NEXTSTEP applications routinely make use of Display PostScript, image filters, and image linking. However, drawing and editing have been limited to the use of a mouse or a tablet using NeXT-supplied drivers.

The TabletKit adds a new dimension to NEXTSTEP graphics applications. The TabletKit allows developers to add application-specific tablet events to NEXTSTEP without the pain of writing or acquiring low-level drivers for every available tablet. Users benefit by being able to use a mouse in addition to a tablet, allowing them to use other applications in a normal manner.

FEATURES

The TabletKit defines a high-level framework and API that facilitates communication between applications and graphics tablets. Tablet input occurs independent of both the mouse and a specific display area of the screen. This framework eases development of applications relying on tablet information for digitizing graphs, maps, and other images, in addition to free hand drawing, gesture recognition, and many other activities requiring a tablet and stylus or cursor as the primary mode of input.

The TabletKit fully supports features common to many tablets including:

	·	Transmission control settings (baud rate, parity, etc.)
	·	Communication protocol settings
	·	Alternate report formats and report frequency
	·	Resolution and orientation settings
	·	Multi-button pressure and angle sensitive stylus
	·	4-button and 16-button cursor

The TabletKit also provides a high-level API for developers that allows creation of custom tablet reader bundles for reading data from tablets with currently unsupported data formats. The TabletKit currently provides two bundles for reading the MM/SummaSketch and UIOF/Microgrid binary data formats.

The distribution also includes high quality documentation, an example drawing application, and source code for the supplied tablet reader bundles which utilize the TabletReader API.

"We're thrilled to continue delivering high quality objects to the ObjectWare market." said Terry Wilcox, President of Arcane Systems Ltd. "We're also very fortunate to be working with such talented authors. The ObjectWare market has a long future ahead of it and we're happy to be involved."

A single developer TabletKit license is available for $225 US.  Academic licenses are available for $95 US.  Contact Arcane Systems for ordering details.

NEXTSTEP is a registered trademark of NeXT, Inc.  All other trademarks mentioned belong to their respective owners.

ABOUT ARCANE SYSTEMS

Arcane Systems Ltd. is a privately held software development company based in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.  The company was founded to pursue opportunities in object-oriented product development, training, and consulting.

###
