













		    (C) 1994 Trillium Sound Research Inc.

		       TouchNTalk User Reference Manual

				      by

				Dale Brisinda

			       October 19, 1994











































Table of Contents

List of Tables and Illustrations ...........................................  3

1  Introduction ............................................................  4
2  Soft Functions ..........................................................  4
   2.1  Help ...............................................................  4
   2.2  Open ...............................................................  4
   2.3  Save ...............................................................  5
   2.4  Close ..............................................................  5
   2.5  Page ...............................................................  5
   2.6  Shell ..............................................................  5
   2.7  Windows ............................................................  5
   2.8  Holo Set ...........................................................  5
   2.9  Speech Mode ........................................................  6
   2.10 Configuration ......................................................  6
3  Left Holophrasts ........................................................  6
4  Page Turning ............................................................  6
5  Locating Pages ..........................................................  7
6  Bookmark Management .....................................................  7
   6.1  Adding Bookmarks ...................................................  7
   6.2  Removing and Renaming Bookmarks ....................................  7
   6.3  Locating Bookmarks .................................................  7
7  Horizontal and Vertical Scrolling .......................................  8
8  Cursor Location .........................................................  8
9  Tactile Document Display ................................................  9
10 System Interaction Line .................................................  9
11 Document Publishing .....................................................  9

   References .............................................................. 10




































List of Tables and Illustrations

Figure 1. Soft Function Panel ..............................................  4
Figure 2. Open Document Window	............................................  5
Figure 3. Document Selection Window ........................................  5
Figure 4. Configuration Panel ..............................................  6
Figure 5. Annotated Regions of Textured Pad ................................  6
Figure 6. Bookmark Addition Panel ..........................................  7
Figure 7. Bookmark Removal and Renaming Panel ..............................  7

























































1 Introduction

    TouchNTalk is a document browsing system for the visually impaired. The
system includes a visual display, a pseudo-display, and a document publishing
facility.

    The visual display allows sighted users to interact with the system
through a traditional mouse and keyboard interface. Since the visual display
corresponds directly to the pseudo-display, it serves as an alternate form of
interaction for sighted and partly visually impaired users. Furthermore, it is
helpful in aiding individuals who teach others how to use the system.

    The pseudo-display allows visually impaired users to interact with the
system through the use of a digitizing tablet, textured pad, stylus, and
text-to-speech translation system. Various functions are invoked by moving the
stylus through grooves and clicking one of the available buttons. The document
publishing facility allows text documents to be converted into a format
understood by TouchNTalk. Both on-the-fly and off-line publishing of text
documents are supported. Document publishing is a relatively quick process, so
on-the-fly publishing is a feasible alternative if disk space is at a premium,
or if a pre-published version of the document is unavailable.

    This manual describes the various functions of TouchNTalk and how they are
invoked. These functions will be described in terms of the pseudo-display
interface. The same functions can be invoked from the visual display by using
the mouse as the input device. This is accomplished by dragging in a
particular area and clicking the right mouse button the required number of
times (in rapid succession). Tapping the stylus on the tablet shall be
referred to as a single click, while depression of the barrel button on the
side of the stylus will be referred to as a double or second click. 

2 Soft Functions

    Soft functions are located in the left most vertical groove of the
display. Moving the stylus or mouse within the soft function groove causes a
beep to be emitted when a soft function is encountered, followed by the spoken
name of the soft function. Clicking in the soft function groove selects the
soft function adjacent the stylus or mouse. Clicking in the soft function
groove a second time, selecting the same soft function as previously, results
in the cancellation of the soft function. This only applies to soft functions
which display a control window, such as open, and windows. The visual
representation of the soft function groove is shown in Figure 1.

2.1 Help

    The help facility consists of an on-line version of the current document.
It primarily serves as a reference document for visually impaired users who
already know the basics of the system.

2.2 Open

    The open soft function allows users to open files located anywhere in the
file system. When selected, it displays an open document window to display the
contents of the currently active directory (shown in Figure 2). The current
opened directory is the same as that which is currently active in the visual
NEXTSTEP open panel. Information in the tactile document display (the main
document area) of the pseudo-display is organized such that the current
directory path appears on the first line of the open document, followed by a
block of child directory names, and a block of file names. Arbitrary
directories in the current directory path on the first line of the open
document, can be opened by double clicking on the appropriate directory name.

			Figure 1. Soft Function Panel.

    The directory name and file name blocks are preceded by a title indicating
the start of the directory name and file name blocks, respectively. In the
event there are no child directories, the directory block will contain a
single line of text indicating no directories are present. Similarly, if there
are no files, the file block will contain a single line of text indicating no
files are present.

    Directories of the file system can be opened by double clicking on the
directory name in the tactile document display. Files can be opened by double
clicking on the desired file. Opening directories and files always results in
a displayed and spoken message indicating the name of the new directory or the
name of the new active document.

    Each line containing a directory or file includes various pieces of
information, beginning with the name of the directory or file, followed by the
last modification time, size, owner and UNIX file permissions.

2.3 Save

    The save soft function is currently unsupported. Future versions of
TouchNTalk will include an editing facility for composing and saving documents
for later retrieval.
                    
		       Figure 2. Open Document Window.

2.4 Close

    The close soft function closes the currently active document window. The
next document as maintained by the NEXTSTEP Windows palette is made active. A
message is displayed and spoken indicating the name of the new active
document. Closing document windows results in a spoken message indicating the
document window has been closed.

2.5 Page

    The page soft function simply displays and speaks a message indicating the
number of the page currently being viewed.

2.6 Shell

    The shell soft function is currently unsupported. Future support of this
feature will allow the user to interact with the underlying operating system.
This feature is an extension of the currently unsupported editing facility.

2.7 Windows

    The windows soft function allows users to select between various open
documents. When selected, it displays a document selection window that
contains a list of all the currently open documents (shown in Figure 3). Each
line of the document contains the document number and the full document path
name. Documents can be selected by double clicking on the line of the document
name. In doing so, the window control document is automatically closed, and
the requested document becomes active. Activating new documents always results
in a displayed and spoken message indicating a new document has become active.

		     Figure 3. Document Selection Window.

2.8 Holo Set

    A holophrast is a groove which represents material of a particular type in
a condensed form as nodes. The four vertical grooves on the left side of the
display are the left holophrast grooves. Each groove represents different
textual material in condensed form. Two holo sets are currently supported. The
first (from left to right) represents titles, paragraphs, sentences, and
phrases. The second represents parenthetical expressions, double quoted
expressions, single quoted expressions, and line/columns for tabular data.
Selecting the holo set soft function switches between the above two holo sets.
More information on the use of these holophrast grooves appears in a
subsequent section. Every document keeps a record of its currently active holo
set.

2.9 Speech Mode

    The speech mode soft function allows the user to toggle between speak and
spell mode when selected. Spell mode spells everything that is selected in the
tactile document display, while speak mode speaks everything selected. The
system interaction line (SIL) is always in speak mode. Every document keeps
its own record of the currently active speech mode.

2.10 Configuration

    The configure soft function allows users to configure the tablet so it can
be used with TouchNTalk. Since the textured surface may be removed and
reattached at any time, there must be a way to tell TouchNTalk where on the
tablet surface the various grooves are located in order for various gestures
to be recognized. This is achieved by specifying the bounding box for every
major area of the tablet. Specifying a bounding box involves clicking in the
corner of each major area of the tablet as requested by the system. The
configuration panel (shown in Figure 4) displays the same instructions as
those spoken by the system.

			Figure 4. Configuration Panel.

    The system guides the user through the entire configuration process. The
user only need follow the visual and/or spoken instructions and should know
the names of the major areas of the textured pad as shown in Figure 5. The
user can cancel the configuration process at any time by pressing the button
on the barrel of the stylus. This process only needs to be done once, since
the required bounding box information is saved to disk. When TouchNTalk is
launched for the first time, tablet configuration will be invoked
automatically.

3 Left Holophrasts

    The vertical left holophrast grooves allow users to locate particular
nodes of text. Moving the stylus or mouse within a holophrast groove will
highlight a node when the stylus is adjacent the line at which the node begins
or ends. A beep is emitted when the start of a node is encountered, and a
lower pitched beep is emitted when the end of a node is encountered. If
multiple nodes exist on a single line, the first node is highlighted. Clicking
the stylus or mouse speaks the highlighted node. Subsequent clicks highlights
the next node on the line and speaks it. Each click emits a beep indicating a
new node has been located. When no more nodes exist on the current line, a
tone is generated indicating there are no more nodes. Subsequent clicks cycle
through the nodes on the line again.

		 Figure 5. Annotated Regions of Textured Pad.

    If the node crosses a page boundary, a message is displayed and spoken
indicating this is the case. The message is spoken after the contents of the
node have been spoken when the node spans the bottom of the current page.
Conversely,  the message is spoken before the contents of the node have been
spoken when the node spans the top of the current page. If the highlighted
node spans several lines, clicking anywhere adjacent the node will speak it.
Double clicking in a left holophrast groove will cause the type of the
holophrast (phrase, sentence, paragraph, etc.) to be spoken.

4 Page Turning

    Selecting the previous page button in the upper left of the display will
cause the previous page of the document to be displayed. The corresponding
action for the stylus is a click in the upper left indented rectangle of the
tablet. Selecting the next page button in the upper right of the display will
cause the next page of the document to be displayed. The corresponding action
for the stylus is a click stroke in the upper right indented rectangle of the
tablet. A beep is emitted if turning the page is not possible due to being at
the front or end of a document.

5  Locating Pages

    The topmost horizontal groove is the page locator groove. The groove acts
as a page holophrast containing all the pages of the document. The leftmost
side of the page locator groove represents page one, while the rightmost side
of the groove represents the largest page number for the document. Moving the
stylus or cursor within this groove will emit a tone which increases in pitch
as the distance to the current page also increases. When a tone is no longer
generated, the stylus or mouse is on the current page. Single clicking the
stylus or cursor at this time will bring up the bookmark insertion panel
(described in the next section). Single clicking anywhere else in the page
locator groove will open the document to the associated page. The SIL will
contain the current page number when a new page is activated, although it will
not be spoken since the page locator tone will still be active.

6 Bookmark Management

    Bookmark management involves handling the addition, removal, and location
of bookmarks within a document. Clicking the stylus or mouse in the page
locator groove (at the current page) will bring up a panel for bookmark
management. The system is intelligent enough to know whether a bookmark is to
be inserted, removed, or changed and will supply the user with the appropriate
options (both visually and orally) based on the current circumstances.

6.1 Adding Bookmarks

    When the bookmark panel for adding bookmarks appears, (shown in Figure 6)
if a bookmark for the current page does not already exist, the possible
options for adding a bookmark are displayed and spoken. Pressing the enter or
carriage return key immediately accepts the default bookmark name. Otherwise,
a custom bookmark name should be typed followed by a carriage return. The
bookmark is then added for the current page. A message indicating the bookmark
has been added is then displayed in the SIL and spoken.

		      Figure 6. Bookmark Addition Panel.

6.2 Removing and Renaming Bookmarks

    When the bookmark panel for removing or renaming bookmarks appears (shown
in Figure 7) if a bookmark for the current page already exists, the possible
options for removing or renaming the bookmark are displayed and spoken.
Pressing the carriage return key immediately accepts the current bookmark
name, leaving it unchanged. Pressing the delete key followed by a carriage
return removes the bookmark from the current page. Otherwise, a name should be
typed followed by a carriage return in order to change the name of the
bookmark. In all cases a message is displayed in the SIL and spoken,
indicating the final result.

		Figure 7. Bookmark Removal and Renaming Panel.

6.3 Locating Bookmarks

    Locating bookmarks is an important part of bookmark management. The second
groove from the top is the bookmark locator groove. This groove acts as a
bookmark holophrast containing all the bookmarks in the document. Moving the
stylus or cursor within this groove will emit a beep when a bookmark is
located. Clicking at this location will speak the name of the bookmark. Double
clicking at this location will open the document to the page of this bookmark.
There are as many bookmark slots as there are pages in the document. If a
bookmark does not exist for a particular page no beep is emitted.

7 Horizontal and Vertical Scrolling

    To correctly understand scrolling behavior one should imagine a window
being moved in the direction of the stylus or mouse for the current document
page. This is consistent with how document scrolling devices work in
traditional graphical user interfaces.

    The horizontal window scroll groove is the third horizontal groove from
the top. Moving the stylus or mouse in this groove will scroll the window
horizontally by the number of columns moved in the appropriate direction. A
message indicating how many columns scrolled is displayed and spoken when the
stylus is raised out of the groove. If we were only able to scroll part of the
amount, a message indicating the partial amount scrolled is displayed and
spoken. Since scrolling is cumulative, we can therefore scroll left and right
and the page will be scrolled the net amount. If the net amount is zero, a
message indicating there was no scroll is spoken and displayed in the SIL.

    The vertical window scroll groove is the right most vertical groove on the
display. All that applies to the horizontal scroll groove also applies to the
vertical scroll groove, except we scroll in the upwards and downwards
directions, indicating the number of lines actually scrolled.

8 Cursor Location

    There are currently three cursors in TouchNTalk, the user cursor, the
system cursor, and the mark. The user cursor appears at the current location
of the stylus or mouse within the tactile document display or SIL. This cursor
is for the benefit of the sighted user allowing him/her to see where in the
tactile document display or SIL the visually impaired user is working.

    The system cursor location is remembered by the system as its last marked
working location. The system cursor will also be used as the location at which
text entry will occur when an editing facility is in place.

    The mark is used for remembering the previous system cursor location when
the system cursor is moved to another location. The system cursor can be moved
to the location of the user cursor by double clicking the stylus or mouse in
the tactile document display. In addition, the mark is then moved to the old
location of the system cursor. The mark therefore follows the system cursor as
it is moved to new locations.

    The vertical groove at the right side of the display closest to the
tactile document display is the system cursor locator, and serves to locate
the system cursor. Moving the stylus or cursor within this groove will emit a
tone which increases in pitch as the distance to the line containing the
system cursor also increases. When a tone is no longer generated, the stylus
or mouse is adjacent the line containing the system cursor. If the tone cannot
be silenced, then the system cursor is not currently visible. Clicking
anywhere in the cursor locator groove will bring up the page with the system
cursor centered in the display so that it is visible.

    Once the line containing the system cursor has been located as described
above, double clicking at the current location in the cursor locator groove
places TouchNTalk into cursor location mode. The user may now locate the exact
position of the system cursor by moving out of the cursor locator groove into
the adjacent horizontal groove in the tactile document display. Since
TouchNTalk is now in cursor location mode, moving along the horizontal groove
in the tactile document display functions similar to the cursor locator
groove. A tone is emitted, increasing in pitch as the distance to the column
containing the system cursor also increases. When a tone is no longer
generated, the stylus or mouse is in the exact location of the system cursor.
Clicking the stylus swaps the system cursor and the mark, and is useful when
the user wishes to locate the mark. Since only the system cursor can be
located, swapping the system  cursor and mark provides us with a consistent
method for locating the mark. Lifting the stylus clear of the tablet, or
moving into another groove while in cursor location mode, returns TouchNTalk
into normal browsing mode.

9 Tactile Document Display

    The tactile document display includes all horizontal grooves below the
topmost 3 lines and above the bottommost line. The area covered by these
grooves is the document viewing area. Moving the stylus or mouse in this area
speaks the textual elements encountered according to the soft function speech
mode previously discussed. Words, characters, and whitespace are considered to
be the basic textual elements.

    When whitespace is encountered a beep is emitted. Single clicking repeats
the last spoken textual element encountered, whether it is a word or
whitespace. Double clicking moves the system cursor to the location of the
stylus or mouse where the user cursor currently resides and a message
indicating the new position of the system cursor is displayed and spoken. This
does not apply when control documents such as selecting windows or opening
documents are active since double clicking is then used to select the desired
item.

10 System Interaction Line

    The system interaction line (SIL) is the bottommost  horizontal groove on
the display. All system messages are sent to the SIL to be displayed and
spoken. In addition, the SIL always contains the most recent system message.
Moving the cursor or stylus in the SIL speaks the textual elements encountered
in the same fashion as in the tactile document display area. The system
messages spoken and sent to the SIL are at a slightly lower pitch than normal
browsing speech to allow the user to distinguish between the two types of
speech. Single clicking in the SIL repeats the last spoken textual element
encountered, whether it is a word or whitespace. Double clicking in the SIL
speaks its entire contents. Since there is no vertical or horizontal scrolling
behavior for the SIL, double clicking is the only way to read all of the text
if the last system message sent is sufficiently long as to be truncated at the
end of the groove.

11 Document Publishing

    Document publishing involves the process of breaking up ascii text
document into various nodes which allows the document to be examined within
TouchNTalk. There are currently two document publishing methods available. The
first method is completely transparent to the user and occurs when the user
opens any ascii text file from within TouchNTalk. The ascii text file is
loaded and published for immediate browsing.

    The second method is through the command line utility publish. This
utility takes as arguments an optional line wrapping length specification, an
optional tabstop specification, and the name of the ascii text file to
publish. The utility generates a published version of the ascii text file and
places the new file in the current directory under the same name as the
original file with a .tnt extension appended. The line wrapping length
specification allows the user to specify the maximum allowable line length in
a document. This can be useful in cases where a document has running
paragraphs or other characteristics that would normally make viewing
difficult. The main reason for the optional tabstop specification is to allow
the user to specify how tabs should be converted to spaces. This feature is
necessary in order to simplify problems associated with accurate selection of
textual elements within the tactile document display. If the user does not
supply a tabstop specification, a common tabstop specification is used by
default. The primary advantage in using the command line utility to
pre-publish a set of ascii text files is a reduced load time for the resulting
documents. This is especially true for extremely large ascii text files.




References

D. R. Hill and C. Grieb, "Substitution for a Restricted Visual Channel in
Multimodal Computer-Human Dialogue," IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and
Cybernetics, vol. 18, no. 2, March/April 1988.

S.W. Maloff, "Touch 'n Talk Users' Reference,"  unpublished, 1988.

S.W. Maloff, "Touch 'n Talk Implementation,"  unpublished, 1989.

M. Kornell, "The NeXT Touch 'n Talk," unpublished, 1991.
