April 3rd, 1992:	Took out all error checking in paged_diphone()
			and diphone_duration(), to speed calculation.
			If a non-existent phone is entered, then the
			system will crash.  This should not be a problem
			when pronunciations come from system dictionaries
			or algorithms, since only legal phones are used
			there.  When pronunciations are entered from
			Literal Mode, then the function validPhone()
			should be used to check the user-entered phones.

			Cache preloading has been added to this module.
			The function init_diphone_module() now has a 3rd
			argument which specifies a cache preload file.
			Diphones in this file are specified as:
		
			phone1 phone2\n

			That is, phone1 followed by a space, followed by
			phone2, followed immediately with a newline.  One
			diphone, therefore, is specified per line.  If the
			3rd argument to init_diphone_module() is set to
			NULL, then no preloading of the cache takes place.
			The size of the cache can be changed in the
			diphone_module.h file.

			Diphones are now placed on a diphone block of size
			2044, instead of on a vm page, to save memory, and
			since DEGAS will produce a diphone of size 2024 maximum.
			2044 is the size recommended by the malloc() man page,
			for efficiency, and to avoid vm fragmentation.


March 30th, 1992:	Added error checking to paged_diphone(), and to
			diphone_duration().  If the specified phones are
			not legal, then these two routines return 0.
			Added the function validPhone(), as a resource
			to check if specified phone is legal.  Also, now
			if any of the specified parameters in the function
			init_diphone_module() are not legal, then an error
			code is returned.

March 27th, 1992:	Added a cache to the diphone_module.  This is a most
			recently used cache;  it consists of a list, with
			most recently used items at the top, and least recently
			used at the bottom.  The cache is searched top to bottom
			and if the item is found in the cache, it is put at the
			top of the list.  If the diphone is not found in the
			cache, it is calculated, and put at the top of the list.
			If the cache was full, then the bottom item (the least
			recently used) is removed from the list.  The cache is
			wiped clean if the diphone module is re-initialized.

March 26th, 1992:	Created diphone_module.  This module allows the caller
			to calculate specified diphones on the fly.  The module
			must first be initialized using init_diphone_module(),
			which takes the full path name to a .degas file, as well
			as a list of synthesizer parameters.  The other functions
			(see diphone_module.h for a complete listing) can be called
			at any time, and in any order, once the initialization is
			complete.  This module recalculates each diphone each time
			the diphone is requested, and does NOT do caching.  Note
			that the module can be re-initialized at any time with
			a new .degas file and parameter list.
